Vm management updates (#1236)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.6-vm-management/10-create-manage-vm/20-access-cluster-with-virtctl.md

Author: @karl-cardenas-coding We should add this to our internal style. I'll put it on the team agenda if you like. In PRs I've reviewed I haven't seen a space between the sentence that introduces a command, so I followed suit. But I agree some space is preferred.

---
title: "Access VM Cluster with virtctl"
metaTitle: "Set up virtctl"
metaDescription: "Set up KubeVirt virtctl to facilitate VM operations in the Spectro VM Dashboard web interface."
icon: " "
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Overview

> The virtctl command-line interface (CLI) tool facilitates some of the VM operations you will perform, such as copying and pasting into the virtual console.

Author: @cloudmaniac I've added these additional items to the doc.

# Prerequisites

> - A running virtual cluster and access to it.

Author: Added this.

# Download and Connect virtctl

> 1. Download the virtctl artifact based on your machine type from [KubeVirt Assets](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/tag/v0.60.0-alpha.0). Scroll down to the Assets section.

Author: added.

2. Give execute permission to the virtctl command.

  ```shell
  chmod +x virtctl 
  ```

> 3. Next, log in to Palette as a tenant admin to connect your host cluster with the virtctl CLI.

Author: added.

4. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. 

> 5. Select the host cluster you want to connect.

Author: added.

6. From the cluster overview page, navigate to the middle column containing cluster details and locate the **Kubernetes Config File** row.

7. Click on the kubeconfig link to download the file.

8. Open a terminal window and set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the file path of the kubeconfig file.

    Example:
  ```shell
  export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/dev-cluster.kubeconfig 
  ```

> 9. Issue the `virtctl ssh <machinename>` or `virtctl vnc <machinename>` command to display the login screen.

Author: added

    Example:
  ```shell
  virtctl ssh ubuntu 
  ```

> You can now issue virtctl commands against your host cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: added

> 

Author: added

# Validation

> Verify you have access to your host cluster by issuing virtctl commands against it.

Author: added.

- A running virtual cluster with Palette VM Management and access to it.

# Download and Connect virtctl

1. Download the most recent virtctl artifact based on your machine type from the official [KubeVirt Assets](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/tag/v0.60.0-alpha.0). Scroll down to the Assets section.

2. Give execute permission to the virtctl command.

  ```shell
  chmod +x virtctl 
  ```

3. Next, log in to Palette as a tenant admin to connect your host cluster with the virtctl CLI.

4. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. 

5. Select the cluster you want to connect to.

6. From the cluster overview page, navigate to the middle column containing cluster details and locate the **Kubernetes Config File** row.

7. Click on the kubeconfig link to download the file.

8. Open a terminal window and set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the file path of the kubeconfig file.

    Example:
  ```shell
  export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/dev-cluster.kubeconfig 
  ```

9. Issue the `virtctl ssh <virtual_machinename>` or `virtctl vnc <virtual_machinename>` command to display the login screen.

    Example:
  ```shell
  virtctl ssh ubuntu 
  ```

> You can now issue virtctl commands against your host cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now issue virtctl commands against the VM in your Kubernetes cluster.
```
